Once we know how we can work with the columns in C A says grid where we just need to use the property
by the name of grid template columns and then set up the values that we would like to use for the columns.
Why don't we take a look at the rows.
Now as far as rows are concerned well the setup is very very similar where we have the property named
by the grid template and then the ending his rows.
So this is gonna be the property that sets up the rows.
Now let's start again.
Let's say I want my first row to be 300 pixels.
And then let's say the second one is going to be 20 our.
Now let's say that and sure enough what we have we have the first column and first row is going to be
in fact 300 pixels on the second row is 20 arms because this is the value that we set it up.
Now we also know that we have the implicit grid correct just because we have seven items while in fact
this is this grid is creating this extra row for that item number seven.
Now what do you think is going to happen if explicitly.
I'm going to go and say that my role is going to be two hundred.
Well you guessed that.
Now my third row is in fact this 200 pixels that I explicitly set up.
That's the reason why it is called implicit grid where in this case I am explicitly saying what would
be the height of my particular low.
But previously when I didn't add it well it was set in fact in the order.
Now you're probably wondering well what are you talking about.
Why are you saying that it is being set to zero.
Well let's test it out.
We know we can use the order value correct.
And you know it just to spice things up.
I'm gonna change this around I'm gonna add the order for the second column.
Otherwise you're probably thinking the order could be only on the row or column.
That is the last one.
So let's say that.
So now of course the second column is using auto.
But even if I'm gonna go back in if I'm gonna set the value for the height of my third row to the auto
while nothing is changing because that is in fact the default behavior that we're getting with implicit
grid right.
So when we're setting up the implicit grid our rows are being set to auto.
Now we cannot see that that is happening behind the scenes but that is the general idea behind it.
Now you're also probably wondering well wait a minute.
So auto in this case was nice and it was responsive has the screen size was changing.
So is the change in the width of the car.
Why don't we have the same behavior here with the rule.
And the answer is very simple.
What do you think is the height right now so the with.
It's very simple.
We have the div that is spanning all across our window.
Correct.
So as the screen size is changing so is the width of the auto column.
What about the height.
We haven't set up any kind of height for our parent container correct.
So if I'm going to go back and I can set up whatever height I would like but I'm going to go with mean
height of let's say hundred yards.
Some would say you know what I would want this particular container to be a hundred percent height of
the screen and the moment we're going to save it in fact you're going to notice that the third column
is in fact taking the rest of the space because it is having the same behavior like we have for the
column where we have the value of all the same works for the row.
Now again let me maybe change this one around.
We're not 20 hour aims but I'm gonna go with the smaller and you're going to notice that now my container
is hundred percent.
Height of the screen our speed with was already there but the height right now is hundred percent on
the screen.
And then my last column the auto column is in fact taking up the rest of the space.
Now I could also do something like this Remember I said we could set up more values where we would like.
So now I'll have one that's being set tomorrow and the third one that's being set are not the same is
going to work even if I'm going to delete my explicit row there's still first one is auto.
So of course it is all on since I have right now right.
Then there's explicit height for my second row.
But for the third row again we are just implicitly creating this and since right now we already have
the height and that's the reason why the third row is taking up the rest of the space.